Defining Cloud Computing:

    Cloud computing is the latest generation technology with an extensive IT infrastructure that provides us a means by which we can use and utilize the applications as utilities via the Internet. 
    Cloud computing makes IT infrastructure along with with their services available "on-need" basis.
    The cloud technology includes - a development platform, hard disk, computing power, software application, and database. 
    This technology doesn't require large-scale capital expenditure to access cloud vendors. 
    Instead, the cloud facilitates 'pay-per-use,' i.e., the users of the organizations have to pay only that limited amount as much they use the cloud infrastructure. 
    In other words, cloud computing refers to applications and services that run on a distributed network using virtualized resources and uses the standard internet protocols for accessing.

Affect of Cloud on Human Lives:

   The application became cheaper, easier to find, and use.
   The new application becomes more comfortable to develop & create based on a standard modular part
   Cloud will provide new social services by connecting through social networks
   Lessen the usage of proprietary operating systems in our daily computing
   Connection to the cloud can be done whenever we want


Advantages of Cloud:

     Low Cost: To run cloud technology, users don't require high power computers & technology because the application will run on the cloud and not on users' PC.

     Storage Capacity: The Cloud storage capacity is unlimited & generally offers a vast storage capacity of 2000-3000 GBs or more based on the requirement.

     Low cost of IT Infrastructure: As discussed earlier, the investment will be less if an organization uses Cloud technology; even the IT staffs and server engineers are also not required.

     Increase computing Power: Cloud servers have a very high-capacity of running and processing tasks as well as the processing of applications.

     Reduce Software Costs: Cloud minimizes the software costs as users don't need to purchase software for organizations or every computer.

     Updating: Instant software update is possible & users don't have to face the choice problem between obsolete & high-upgrade software.


Disadvantages of Cloud:

     Internet Speed: Cloud technology requires high-speed internet connection as web-based applications often require large bandwidth amount.

     Constant Internet Connection: Its impossible to use cloud infrastructure without the Internet. To access any application or cloud storage, a constant internet connection is required.

     Security: Data storage might not be secure. With cloud computing, all the data gets stored in the cloud & hence the unauthorized user may gain access to the user's data in the cloud.


Cloud Devlopment Model:
  
   Public Cloud Model:
          Public Cloud is a type of cloud hosting that allows the accessibility of systems & its services to its clients/users easily. 
          Some of the examples of those companies which provide public cloud facilities are IBM, Google, Amazon, Microsoft, etc. This cloud service is open for use. 
          This type of cloud computing is a true specimen of cloud hosting where the service providers render services to various clients. 
          From the technical point of view, there is the least difference between private clouds and public clouds along with the structural design. 
          Only the security level depends based on the service providers and the type of cloud clients use. Public cloud is better suited for business purposes for managing the load.
          This type of cloud is economical due to the decrease in capital overheads.
  
   Private Cloud Model:
          Private Cloud also termed as 'Internal Cloud'; which allows the accessibility of systems and services within a specific boundary or organization. 
          The cloud platform is implemented in a cloud-based secure environment that is guarded by advanced firewalls under the surveillance of the IT department that belongs to a particular organization. 
          Private clouds permit only authorized users, providing the organizations greater control over data and its security. 
          Business organizations that have dynamic, critical, secured, management demand based requirement should adopt Private Cloud.

   Hybrid Cloud Model:
          Hybrid Cloud is another cloud computing type, which is integrated, i.e., it can be a combination of two or more cloud servers, i.e., private, public or community combined as one architecture, but remain individual entities.
          Non-critical tasks such as development and test workloads can be done using public cloud whereas critical tasks that are sensitive such as organization data handling are done using a private cloud.
          Benefits of both deployment models, as well as a community deployment model, are possible in a hybrid cloud hosting. 
          It can cross isolation and overcome boundaries by the provider; hence, it cannot be simply categorized into any of the three deployments - public, private or community cloud.
 
   Community Model:
          Community Cloud is another type of cloud computing in which the setup of the cloud is shared manually among different organizations that belong to the same community or area. 
          Example of such a community is where organizations/firms are there along with the financial institutions/banks. 
          A multi-tenant setup developed using cloud among different organizations that belong to a particular community or group having similar computing concern.

Cloud Services:
          
   Software as a Services (Saas):
         SaaS is defined as the software distribution model that is deployed on the internet in which a cloud service provider provides applications. 
         It is also known as "on-demand software" or "pay-as-you-go application". Here the customer licenses their product via SaaS-providers. 
         SaaS market is a rapid-growing one, and with this fast-growing service, SaaS will soon become an active cloud service technology for every organization and companies. 
         So it's important to understand those users and or buyers the usage of SaaS and why it is suitable.
   
   Pltform as a Service (PaaS):
         PaaS is a platform for programming developers and brings the benefits - SaaS is used for but from the software development point. 
         It is the computer platform that provides the facility to use web applications quickly and with ease, without buying & maintaining web-development PaaS has a similarity with that of SaaS except that SaaS deliver software over the web, whereas PaaS provides a platform for the creating of software, delivered over the web. 
         PaaS has a feature of point-and-click tool that allows non-programmers to develop web applications. 
         App-Engine of Google & Force.com, Windows Azure, AppFog, Openshift, and VMware Cloud Foundry are examples of PaaS.

   Infrastructuer as a Service (IaaS):
         IaaS, as the name suggests, is a way of providing Cloud computing infrastructure such as virtual machines, storage drives, servers, operating systems & networks, which is also an on-demand service like that of SaaS.
         Rather than purchasing servers or developing software, clients buy those resources as a fully outsourced service based on their requirement.
        "Public cloud" is considered as an infrastructure that consists of shared resources, based on a self-service over the Internet. 
         In one word, it is the only layer of the cloud where the customer gets the platform for their organization to outsource IT infrastructure on a pay-per-use basis.

   Identity as a Service (IaaS):
         IDaaS (Identity as a Service) This provides management of employee or user's identity information as a digital entity. 
         It minimizes the problem of remembering every different username & password combination or disabling of account when an employee leaves the company.

   Network as a Service (NaaS):
         NaaS (Network as a Service) allows users to access network infrastructure directly. This service uses the virtualized network infrastructure & provides users & customers with network services in a secured manner. 
         The NaaS providers maintain & manage network resources which decrease the workload of customers/users. It is also based on the pay-per-use model.

Amazon Web Services Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2):

        There are times when one is limited by the capabilities of a desktop or laptop. 
        Suppose a data scientist has a large dataset that they would like to do some analysis on. 
        The scientist proceeds to try and load the entire dataset into memory and an error like the one below occurs.

        The error resulted because the available RAM was exhausted. The operating system couldn't allocate another 500Mb of RAM. 
        While there are many different solutions to this type of problem, one possible solution could be to upgrade the RAM of the computer.
        Besides having to make an investment in more RAM, there are limits to how far some computers can be upgraded. 
        The potential solution explored in this tutorial is to use a virtual machine in the cloud (AWS) with more RAM and CPU.